Schema Design And Data Modelling - Mongo DB :

--> There are important factors/facets of Application that cannot be estimated properly without data modelling.
	. Scalability : Collecitons , Documents and entities needs to be created based on the current and future demand of the Application
	. Performance : Data Model helps in understand read and write needs of an application and improves performance if designed correctly during update
	. Application needs : Applications might need different data in different scenarios which can be correctly estimated with data modelling
    . Consisitency : Helps in reducing redundant data and helps in understanding data dependencies
    . Capacity : Data model helps in creation of optimised documents and reduce redundant data in each document.

--> Data Modelling Approaches :
    . Top DOwn Approach : An over view of system is formulated with first level of sub systems. Each sub- system will be furtir refined
     to sub - systems until the base elements level.
    . Bottom up Approach: In this Approach the base elements are combined into larger components and are linked to form a complete system.
	
--> Perspectives of Data Modelling :
	. Conceptual : Describes the meaning of software applications at high level including structure models, functional models, user modals
	. Logical : Based on business requirements
	. Physical : includes all the DB tables , indexing and all small level details from DB perspective
	. ER Modelling: graphical approach to database design uses entiy relationship to describe real world objects
	. Dimensional : uses to build data warehouses which mainly uses two tables to store data namely Fact and Dimension tables
	
	Types of Data Models:
	--> Flat -consists of a single 2D array of data elemts
		Star Schema - Data is organised in facts and dimesnsions
		Hierarchial - organises data in form of tree and each record represents parent or root
		Relational - sorts data into tables known as relations
		Object -relational - Allows desingers to incorporate objects into familiar table structure
      