--> Database purpose :
	Store, Organise and Manage large amount of data; one stop place to manage login , security, back up and recovery; well platform for data analysis.
--> Types of Database:
	. Real Time (Oracle, MySQL) - OLTP   vs  OLAP - DSS/DW (Netezza, SapHana) vs   New SQL - NoSQL/Big Data(Mongo DB, Cassandra/Couch DB)
		SQL 				vs 			Non SQL
	1. one type data     			1. Multiple Type Data
	2. vertical data	 			2. horizontal data
	3. Fixed schema		 			3. variable Schema
	4. ACID(High Consistency)		4. BASE (High AVaiability)
	
	. ACID - Atomocity - Entire transaction is successful or roll backs incase of intermittent failure.
			 Consistency - Structured consitency will be maintained since there are no variable schema or data  insertion is possible. Commited transaction wont cause any structural damage to DB.
			 Isolation - Mutiple transaction will be execusted seperately and independent of each other
			 Durability - Commited data will exist even in case of network outage , if transaction dails before commit it wont impact the manipulated data
	  
	  BASE - Basic AVailablity - Data base available most of the time.
			 Soft State - Due to the lack of immediate consistency, data values may change over time
			 Eventual Consistency - Stores exhibit consistency at later point of time.

	. CAP Theory - COnsistency - Data will be same for everyone after the transaction
				   AVaiability - System should not have down time
				   Partial Tolerance - System continuous to function even during the down time (servers are paritioned into multiple groups so if one server is down the traffic will be routed 
										to working server)
			CA - RDBMS(Single site cluster) , AP - Couch DB Cassandra(System is avaialble under partition but data will be inconsistent), 
			CP - Mongo DB(Some data may not be accessible but rest is consistent and accurate)
--> No SQL Database FEATURES - 
	. Supports multiple number of concurrent users (Volume)
	. provides extremely responsive experience (Velocity)
	. Handles semi and unstructered data (Variablity)
	. Always available with no down time
	. Adapts to change in requirements
	. Veracity - Uncertainity due to latency, deception etc
	
	--> Categories of NoSQL DB :
		1. Document Base - Complex data Structure -(Mongo DB , COuch DB, Cloudant)
		2. Key Value Pairs - its a simple non SQL having single value against Key (Memched, COherence)
		3. Graph Store - used to store network connections - Neo 4g, HyperGraph DB
		4. Wide COlumn Store - Cassandra , HBase, BigTable - Stores columns of large data instead of rows
--> MONGO DB :
	Open source document database used for big data handling ; No primary and foriegn key concept ; reduces time for running complex queries and designed for easy development and scaling
	; provides high performance, availability and scalability
	
	. Mongo Database -  Mongo Server had Multiple Data Base. Mongo Database is Ohysical container fo COLLECTIONS(TABLES). Mongod primary resource of mongo system. Handles data requests, manages data format
	and performs background management operations
	
	. Mongo DB Collections - group of similar or realted documents in a DB. COllection doesnt had specific schema . DOcuments with in collection contain different feilds.
	
	. Mongo DB tools - Core Processes - mongod, mongos, mongo
					   Data Import and Export tools - mongoimport and mongo export 
					   Diagnostic tools - mongostat, mongotop, mongosniff, mongoperf
					   Windows Services - mongod.exe, mongos.exe
					   Binary Import and Export (Data back up and recovery) - mongodump, mongorestore, bsondump, mongooplog
					   GridFS(Process large files) - mongofiles
					   
	JSON(Java Script Object Notation) and BSON(Binary JSON):
	. JSON - light weight , text structured key - value pair data, easily understandable data 
	. BSON - binary encoded serialization of JSON, contains extension that inlcudes datat types not part of JSON(light weight, traversable, Efficient)
		
	
	